this video will show how to prime factor
numbers so with prime factors we need to
know what they are is any number that
has only one and itself as factors it
only has two factors and they will
always be one and itself so the first
prime number would be two then 3 5 7 11
13 they go on from there but these are
the first several so when I want a prime
factor you've probably seen the factor
trees we'll start with the prime number
that you know goes into four we know
that to be two and then two * what gives
me four well 2 * 2 is 4 and then this
one would be prime factored everything
at the end of my little lines is a prime
number so I know I'm
done all right let's try
34 now this is an even number so I'm
going to just start with two and then
two goes into three once one left over
and then two goes into 14 seven times
and 17 happens to be a perfect or a
prime number
17 happens to be a prime number so this
one's
done all right they're not always so
easy let's try this one 75 H well it's
not even but it is going to be divisible
by five because of this last number
being a five remember numbers ending in
five or zero can be divisible by five so
we take five and 15 * 5 would be
75 and 15 is not a prime number so I
have to do it again and it ends in five
so I know that it's going to be
divisible by that prime number five and
5 * 3 is 15 and three is one of my prime
numbers up here so I know that 5 * 5 * 3
is equal to 75 that's the prime
factorization of
75 one
more so
160 well it's divisible by two it's
divisible by five I usually start with
the smallest number I don't know why I
might go faster if I did a bigger number
but I always use the smallest number for
some reason so two goes into 16 eight
times and then I have a zero left over
so it would be
80 again I could say that it's divisible
by
two and if it's divisible by 2 then 40 *
2 is
80 and 40 again is divisible by two and
that would leave me with
20 and 20 again is divisible by two and
that's going to leave me with 2 *
10 and then 10 is also divisible by 2
and it's 2 * 5 and now everything I have
is a prime number because five is a
prime number so if I wanted to write my
prime factors out I have one 2 3 4 5
twos * 2 * 2 * 2 * 1 more two *
5 and that would be 160 so even if I had
started with the five I would have still
had to end up with all these twos
eventually so it all works
out